yagip.md, before:

YAGIP
=====
#### Yet Another Guide on Interview Prep

### ⚠ I just started writing this note and it is not even a draft yet

I compiled a list of interview prep resources in Fall of 2018. That was a pre-cursor
to my interview preparation. Now, after I am somewhat done with this, I decided 
to write down this note to document how I prepared.

I have interviewed with some big names before, but everything  did not go as 
planned at those on-site interviews. This time I realized, I need to change my 
approach. 

I read some interview prep guides and looked at some wonderful  resources and made 
a plan. A fundamental change I made is that I realized, *preparing for interviews
is not the same as studying for algorithms courses*. In addition, I did not interview
with just one company at once. After I started preparing, I started accepting interview 
requests and in addition, I actively seeked out for some opportunities. Then I 
started interviewing at different companies. Nailed most of it, but not all of them. 

In my honest opinion, there is no point in writing 
_**yet another guide on interview prep**_ (abbr. YAGIP); 
but I am  scribing it down, mostly for my own record. If it turns out to be 
helpful to someone else, then that is a plus.


## Table of Contents
- [Mindset and approach](#mindset-and-approach)
- [Role](#role)
- [Things to focus on](#things-to-focus-on)
- [Your Profile](#your-profile)
- [Your Story](#your-story)
- [Data Structures and Algorithms](#dsalgo)
  - [Topics](#dsalgo-topics)
  - [Reading Materials](#dsalgo-reading-materials)
- [Hacking the Coding Interview](#coding)  

###### abbr.
I am using following abbreviations in this document:

- CSCQ -- [r/cscareerquestions](https://www.reddit.com/r/cscareerquestions/) subreddit 
- LC -- [LeetCode](http://leetcode.com) 

###### legends
- 🕶 - take a very brief look into the topic, you do not have to grok it
- 🔬 - deep dive into the topic, grok it
- ✨ - if you have time, please understand these topic well
- 🌪 - these topic needs very advanced understanding, if you can learn about those then awesome, 
but realistically I don't expect questions from these topics 
- 🔍 - search


## Mindset and approach
Having a right mindset is helpful. What is right for you may be different from 
someone else. But, invariably do these:

- Love your current job (or fake it)
- Practice effectively regularly (more on it later)
- Aim high
- Interview with more than a few companies at once
- Always thrive to better yourself


## Role
I am a software engineer, and this note is about interviewing for 
software engineering roles. Titles vary; but usually:
- Software Engineer
- Software Development Engineer

Often shortened as SE, SWE, SDE etc. For more info visit [level.fyi](http://level.fyi)
And there would be a lot of qualifiers; e.g.: Senior SE/SDE/SWE, Staff ~.
Also manager roles may be titled as: Software Engineering Manager, 
Engineering Manager, Director of Engineering etc. 

I am not a manager or tech leader yet. So, take this with some grains of salt. 

## Things to focus on
As a software engineer you need to focus on the following things:

- Your profile (LinkedIn and resume) 
- Your story (what story do you want to tell about yourself to recruiters, mangers and peers)
- Understanding basic data structures and algorithms
- Problem solving and programming skill
- Understanding of software systems (system design, architecture, API design etc.)
- Understanding of software development process and lifecycle (SDLC, Agile, Scrum, CD, CI etc)
- Interviewing (Applying/Getting interview requests and timing)
- Know your worth
- Making a decision


## Your Profile
Resume is important for job search. But, today, LinkedIn is the most important
form of profile. So, try to polish your LinkedIn profile. Do not add fake info. 
Remove stale info. Proudly showcase what you have done. You have more room to 
list all of your achievements, voluntary works and what not. For each role, also
describe what you worked on, list your projects so on so forth.

I do not know how valued recommendations and endorsements on LinkedIn are, but it 
is definitely nice to have those. 

Resumes should be strictly one page, should have your contact info and list your
relevant jobs and education. Read CSCQ FAQ on [resume](https://www.reddit.com/r/cscareerquestions/wiki/index#wiki_resumes) and utilize their threads on [resume review](https://www.reddit.com/r/cscareerquestions/search?q=Resume+Advice+Thread&restrict_sr=on&sort=new&t=all).


## Your Story
- What is your elevator pitch? 
- How can you introduce yourself to me in less than five minutes. 
- Can you tell me about you in 15-20 minutes?
- What did you do? What interests you? What are you working on?

Be excited about what you are doing. Be excited about yourself. Exude confidence 
and passion. 
To prepare for this, take some time to reflect on your life and career. Go through 
your good old memories, and if you have access to, through your past projects (their
documentations, demos, videos, presentations, source code -- whatever you have).
Also, if you are currently working, and interviewing as an industry hire, please,
try to understand the bigger picture and architecture of your current project(s).

Also, reflect on any decisions (technical or otherwise) you have made at work or 
for yourself. Do some introspection. Was that a right decision? Why did you make 
those decisions etc. 

Know thyself. 


## DS+Algo
Understanding most used data structures and algorithms is a must. Depending on
how fresh is your knowledge, you may benefit from reading on them. Make sure that
you understand most of the following:

### DA+Algo Topics
###### DS 
- Arrays, Collections, Dynamic Arrays, Direct Access
- Linked Lists, Doubly LL, Circular LL 
- Stack, Queue, Heap/Priority Queue -- LL & array implementations
- Trees, BSTs, Binary and m-ary trees 
- Graphs
- Hashed map, hashed set etc. 📃 [hash-maps↗](http://shlegeris.com/2017/01/06/hash-maps)

###### Algorithm concepts
🔬 Basics: 
- Sorting, merge sort, quick sort, bubble sort, insertion sort, bucket sort etc. 
- Binary search
- Iteration, loop invariant

🔬 Intermediate: 
- Recursion
- Back tracking
- Greedy 

✨ Somewhat Advanced: 
- Dynamic programming, memoization
- Graph traversal, BFS, DFS
- Be familiar with common graph algorithms like Djisktra's, Krushkal's, Prim's, 
Floyd Wasrhall etc. 

🌪 Advanced (you can skip this):
- Maximum flow
- Number theory
- Randomized algorithms
- Cache oblivious algorithms
- Parallel algorithms


###### Related concepts
- Space and time complexity (Big O notations) 
    📃 [complexity](https://discrete.gr/complexity/), 
    [big-O c/s](http://bigocheatsheet.com/)
- NP hard, NP complete 🕶 

### DS+Algo Reading Materials
> Everyone has their own style of studying. So, adopt it for yourself. 

These are some books that I have found useful in the past:
- [Sedgewick](http://a.co/d/9cUnqJI) -- It was my favorite book in college
- [CLRS](http://a.co/d/aVnF8Eu) -- *the* algorithm text book
- [Skiena](http://www.algorist.com/) -- design manual, I keep it on my desk
- [DVP](http://cseweb.ucsd.edu/~dasgupta/book/index.html) -- Dasgupta _et al_; ([↗pdf](http://algorithmics.lsi.upc.edu/docs/Dasgupta-Papadimitriou-Vazirani.pdf))

But, this time I used following resources to brush up my understanding of algorithms 

- **💎[Jeff Erickson](http://algorithms.wtf)** -- lecture notes by an UIUC prof, 
now converted into a book. I focused on chapters: 3 to 8
- [Lecture on Perfect Hashing](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=N0COwN14gt0&list=PLcwzLgwZyB41YgCGN1LFO-7wsg8Qh6-gp&index=2) by Prof. David R. Karger, MIT
- [Suffix Tree and other adv string d.s.](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=F3nbY3hIDLQ&t=3328s) - Erik Damien
- [Max sum of non-adj nums](http://blog.gainlo.co/index.php/2016/12/02/uber-interview-question-maximum-sum-non-adjacent-elements/) · on Gainlo
- Dynamic Programming
  - [TopCoder Article](https://www.topcoder.com/community/competitive-programming/tutorials/dynamic-programming-from-novice-to-advanced/)
  - [Refdash](http://blog.refdash.com/dynamic-programming-tutorial-example/) 
  - [CodeChef](https://www.codechef.com/wiki/tutorial-dynamic-programming#Practice_Problems)
- Understanding sliding window on [Project Nayuki](https://www.nayuki.io/page/sliding-window-minimum-maximum-algorithm)
- [Arbitrage opportunity with Bellman-Ford](https://www.dailycodingproblem.com/blog/how-to-find-arbitrage-opportunities-in-python/)


 
## Coding
> _**Hacking the Coding Interview**_  

I'd be honest with you. Coding interview can feel like playing Russian roulette.
You are expected to solve some problem, come up with an algorithm and code it 
within some time constraint. This can feel challenging. But, with practice, you 
can get better at it. 

Preparing for coding interview is often colloquially known as *leetcoding*. This
is because [LeetCode](http://leetcode.com) is the ubiquitous resource that almost
everyone uses for preparations. 

Let us talk about types of coding interviews. The goal of coding interview is to
test you ability to produce useful code. That is what you are primarily being 
hired for. So it makes total sense to test these skill. There some common formats
of coding interviews
- **Classic LC style** interviews: This is the most common format of coding 
interview. Your interviewer will ask you some LC style question and you are 
expected to solve it in 10-50 minutes based on the difficulty of the problem. 
These sessions are usually 45-60 minutes long. Of these, 10-15 are set aside for 
intro and wrap up. That means, you have 30-45 minutes to answer their questions.
<br/>
I have seen people asking questions straight from LeetCode; but I have also seen
questions that cannot be directly mapped to a LC question.
<br/>
Usually you are expected to solve one LC medium or LC hard question in 30-40 
minutes. Some time the interviewer might start with a warm up LC easy question
that you should be able to solve under 10 minutes and then there would be a 
following LC medium question. In a sixty minute interview, you are usually 
expected to solve two LC medium problems. Facebook expects you to solve two 
LC mediums during their 45 minute interview (so realistically one medium problem
under 19 minutes).
<br/>
For phone screening you'd usually do this exercise on a shared online coding 
environment like HackerRank, CoderPad etc. On an on-site, generally, you'd write
code on a whiteboard, but don't be surprised if you are actually coding on paper
or on a computer. 

- **Pair Programming** interviews are becoming commonplace nowadays. Here you 
usually get paired with one interviewer and solve a problem incrementally. 
Instead of straight up LC style questions, you start by defining class or object
models or data models for some problem. Ideally, these problems reflect real life
scenario. You start with a simple scenario and gradually add more functionality 
to it. On a 45-60 minute coding session, expect to have 4 parts and 1 bonus part
of the problem.
<br/>
Think of this session as a rapid prototyping or proof of concept development. 
Or think about coding during a hackathon. But. remember that, code cleanliness 
and readability is crucial too.
<br/>
Don't be fooled by the term paired programming. You are supposed to come up with
the algorithm and logic and design.
<br/>
In my humble opinion, being very good at LC mediums and wonderfully fast at your
primary programming language helps you doing well in such interviews
<br/>
📃 Read more on: [Square blog](https://medium.com/square-corner-blog/ace-the-square-pairing-interview-1a886fec98be),
[Dev.to](https://dev.to/sophiedebenedetto/pair-programming-for-interviewees-1eem)
  

 
<br/>
<hr/>


> 2019 © nafSadh  
> Maintained on [GitHub](https://github.com/nafSadh/intvw-prep-res) by [nafSadh](http://nafSadh.com).   
> Please report issues and add suggestions [here](https://github.com/nafSadh/notes/projects/1).

Commit message:

+ online coding and take home

yagip.md, after:

YAGIP
=====
#### Yet Another Guide on Interview Prep

### ⚠ I just started writing this note and it is not even a draft yet

I compiled a list of interview prep resources in Fall of 2018. That was a pre-cursor
to my interview preparation. Now, after I am somewhat done with this, I decided 
to write down this note to document how I prepared.

I have interviewed with some big names before, but everything  did not go as 
planned at those on-site interviews. This time I realized, I need to change my 
approach. 

I read some interview prep guides and looked at some wonderful  resources and made 
a plan. A fundamental change I made is that I realized, *preparing for interviews
is not the same as studying for algorithms courses*. In addition, I did not interview
with just one company at once. After I started preparing, I started scheduling interviews.
Nailed most of it, but not all of them. 

In my honest opinion, there is no point in writing 
_**yet another guide on interview prep**_ (abbr. YAGIP); 
but I am  scribing it down, mostly for my own record. If it turns out to be 
helpful to someone else, then that is a plus.


## Table of Contents
- [Mindset and approach](#mindset-and-approach)
- [Role](#role)
- [Things to focus on](#things-to-focus-on)
- [Your Profile](#your-profile)
- [Your Story](#your-story)
- [Data Structures and Algorithms](#dsalgo)
  - [Topics](#dsalgo-topics)
  - [Reading Materials](#dsalgo-reading-materials)
- [Hacking the Coding Interview](#coding)  

###### abbr.
I am using following abbreviations in this document:

- CSCQ -- [r/cscareerquestions](https://www.reddit.com/r/cscareerquestions/) subreddit 
- LC -- [LeetCode](http://leetcode.com) 

###### legends
- 🕶 - take a very brief look into the topic, you do not have to grok it
- 🔬 - deep dive into the topic, grok it
- ✨ - if you have time, please understand these topic well
- 🌪 - these topic needs very advanced understanding, if you can learn about those then awesome, 
but realistically I don't expect questions from these topics 
- 🔍 - search


## Mindset and approach
Having a right mindset is helpful. What is right for you may be different from 
someone else. But, invariably do these:

- Love your current job (or fake it)
- Practice effectively regularly (more on it later)
- Aim high
- Interview with more than a few companies at once
- Always thrive to better yourself


## Role
I am a software engineer, and this note is about interviewing for 
software engineering roles. Titles vary; but usually:
- Software Engineer
- Software Development Engineer

Often shortened as SE, SWE, SDE etc. For more info visit [level.fyi](http://level.fyi)
And there would be a lot of qualifiers; e.g.: Senior SE/SDE/SWE, Staff ~.
Also manager roles may be titled as: Software Engineering Manager, 
Engineering Manager, Director of Engineering etc. 

I am not a manager or tech leader yet. So, take this with some grains of salt. 

## Things to focus on
As a software engineer you need to focus on the following things:

- Your profile (LinkedIn and resume) 
- Your story (what story do you want to tell about yourself to recruiters, mangers and peers)
- Understanding basic data structures and algorithms
- Problem solving and programming skill
- Understanding of software systems (system design, architecture, API design etc.)
- Understanding of software development process and lifecycle (SDLC, Agile, Scrum, CD, CI etc)
- Interviewing (Applying/Getting interview requests and timing)
- Know your worth
- Making a decision


## Your Profile
Resume is important for job search. But, today, LinkedIn is the most important
form of profile. So, try to polish your LinkedIn profile. Do not add fake info. 
Remove stale info. Proudly showcase what you have done. You have more room to 
list all of your achievements, voluntary works and what not. For each role, also
describe what you worked on, list your projects so on so forth.

I do not know how valued recommendations and endorsements on LinkedIn are, but it 
is definitely nice to have those. 

Resumes should be strictly one page, should have your contact info and list your
relevant jobs and education. Read CSCQ FAQ on 
[resume](https://www.reddit.com/r/cscareerquestions/wiki/index#wiki_resumes) 
and utilize their threads on 
[resume review](https://www.reddit.com/r/cscareerquestions/search?q=Resume+Advice+Thread&restrict_sr=on&sort=new&t=all).


## Your Story
- What is your elevator pitch? 
- How can you introduce yourself to me in less than five minutes. 
- Can you tell me about you in 15-20 minutes?
- What did you do? What interests you? What are you working on?

Be excited about what you are doing. Be excited about yourself. Exude confidence 
and passion. 
To prepare for this, take some time to reflect on your life and career. Go through 
your good old memories, and if you have access to, through your past projects (their
documentations, demos, videos, presentations, source code -- whatever you have).
Also, if you are currently working, and interviewing as an industry hire, please,
try to understand the bigger picture and architecture of your current project(s).

Also, reflect on any decisions (technical or otherwise) you have made at work or 
for yourself. Do some introspection. Was that a right decision? Why did you make 
those decisions etc. 

Know thyself. 


## DS+Algo
Understanding most used data structures and algorithms is a must. Depending on
how fresh is your knowledge, you may benefit from reading on them. Make sure that
you understand most of the following:

### DA+Algo Topics
###### DS 
- Arrays, Collections, Dynamic Arrays, Direct Access
- Linked Lists, Doubly LL, Circular LL 
- Stack, Queue, Heap/Priority Queue -- LL & array implementations
- Trees, BSTs, Binary and m-ary trees 
- Graphs
- Hashed map, hashed set etc. 📃 [hash-maps↗](http://shlegeris.com/2017/01/06/hash-maps)

###### Algorithm concepts
🔬 Basics: 
- Sorting, merge sort, quick sort, bubble sort, insertion sort, bucket sort etc. 
- Binary search
- Iteration, loop invariant

🔬 Intermediate: 
- Recursion
- Back tracking
- Greedy 

✨ Somewhat Advanced: 
- Dynamic programming, memoization
- Graph traversal, BFS, DFS
- Be familiar with common graph algorithms like Djisktra's, Krushkal's, Prim's, 
Floyd Wasrhall etc. 

🌪 Advanced (you can skip this):
- Maximum flow
- Number theory
- Randomized algorithms
- Cache oblivious algorithms
- Parallel algorithms


###### Related concepts
- Space and time complexity (Big O notations) 
    📃 [complexity](https://discrete.gr/complexity/), 
    [big-O c/s](http://bigocheatsheet.com/)
- NP hard, NP complete 🕶 

### DS+Algo Reading Materials
> Everyone has their own style of studying. So, adopt it for yourself. 

These are some books that I have found useful in the past:
- [Sedgewick](http://a.co/d/9cUnqJI) -- It was my favorite book in college
- [CLRS](http://a.co/d/aVnF8Eu) -- *the* algorithm text book
- [Skiena](http://www.algorist.com/) -- design manual, I keep it on my desk
- [DVP](http://cseweb.ucsd.edu/~dasgupta/book/index.html) -- Dasgupta _et al_; ([↗pdf](http://algorithmics.lsi.upc.edu/docs/Dasgupta-Papadimitriou-Vazirani.pdf))

But, this time I used following resources to brush up my understanding of algorithms 

- **💎[Jeff Erickson](http://algorithms.wtf)** -- lecture notes by an UIUC prof, 
now converted into a book. I focused on chapters: 3 to 8
- [Lecture on Perfect Hashing](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=N0COwN14gt0&list=PLcwzLgwZyB41YgCGN1LFO-7wsg8Qh6-gp&index=2) by Prof. David R. Karger, MIT
- [Suffix Tree and other adv string d.s.](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=F3nbY3hIDLQ&t=3328s) - Erik Damien
- [Max sum of non-adj nums](http://blog.gainlo.co/index.php/2016/12/02/uber-interview-question-maximum-sum-non-adjacent-elements/) · on Gainlo
- Dynamic Programming
  - [TopCoder Article](https://www.topcoder.com/community/competitive-programming/tutorials/dynamic-programming-from-novice-to-advanced/)
  - [Refdash](http://blog.refdash.com/dynamic-programming-tutorial-example/) 
  - [CodeChef](https://www.codechef.com/wiki/tutorial-dynamic-programming#Practice_Problems)
- Understanding sliding window on [Project Nayuki](https://www.nayuki.io/page/sliding-window-minimum-maximum-algorithm)
- [Arbitrage opportunity with Bellman-Ford](https://www.dailycodingproblem.com/blog/how-to-find-arbitrage-opportunities-in-python/)


 
## Coding
> _**Hacking the Coding Interview**_  

I'd be honest with you. Coding interview can feel like playing Russian roulette.
You are expected to solve some problem, come up with an algorithm and code it 
within some time constraint. This can feel challenging. But, with practice, you 
can get better at it. 

Preparing for coding interview is often colloquially known as *leetcoding*. This
is because [LeetCode](http://leetcode.com) is the ubiquitous resource that almost
everyone uses for preparations. 

Let us talk about types of coding interviews. The goal of coding interview is to
test you ability to produce useful code. That is what you are primarily being 
hired for. So it makes total sense to test these skill. There some common formats
of coding interviews
- **Classic LC style** interviews: This is the most common format of coding 
interview. Your interviewer will ask you some LC style question and you are 
expected to solve it in 10-50 minutes based on the difficulty of the problem. 
These sessions are usually 45-60 minutes long. Of these, 10-15 are set aside for 
intro and wrap up. That means, you have 30-45 minutes to answer their questions.
<br/>
I have seen people asking questions straight from LeetCode; but I have also seen
questions that cannot be directly mapped to a LC question.
<br/>
Usually you are expected to solve one LC medium or LC hard question in 30-40 
minutes. Some time the interviewer might start with a warm up LC easy question
that you should be able to solve under 10 minutes and then there would be a 
following LC medium question. In a sixty minute interview, you are usually 
expected to solve two LC medium problems. Facebook expects you to solve two 
LC mediums during their 45 minute interview (so realistically one medium problem
under 19 minutes).
<br/>
For phone screening you'd usually do this exercise on a shared online coding 
environment like HackerRank, CoderPad etc. On an on-site, generally, you'd write
code on a whiteboard, but don't be surprised if you are actually coding on paper
or on a computer. 

- **Pair Programming** interviews are becoming commonplace nowadays. Here you 
usually get paired with one interviewer and solve a problem incrementally. 
Instead of straight up LC style questions, you start by defining class or object
models or data models for some problem. Ideally, these problems reflect real life
scenario. You start with a simple scenario and gradually add more functionality 
to it. On a 45-60 minute coding session, expect to have 4 parts and 1 bonus part
of the problem.
<br/>
Think of this session as a rapid prototyping or proof of concept development. 
Or think about coding during a hackathon. But. remember that, code cleanliness 
and readability is crucial too.
<br/>
Don't be fooled by the term paired programming. You are supposed to come up with
the algorithm and logic and design.
<br/>
In my humble opinion, being very good at LC mediums and wonderfully fast at your
primary programming language helps you doing well in such interviews
<br/>
📃 Read more on: [Square blog](https://medium.com/square-corner-blog/ace-the-square-pairing-interview-1a886fec98be),
[Dev.to](https://dev.to/sophiedebenedetto/pair-programming-for-interviewees-1eem)
  
- **Online coding challenge**s are often given to you for initial screening. You 
would be given a link to some online IDE (HackerRank, AmCat etc.). When you start
a session you'd see some timed challenges. You'd have to solve those challenges.
Generally these problems are LC easy to medium. 

- ⚠(don't) **Take home Project**: some companies tend to give you a project that you can 
complete within some time. Generally these projects can take between 6-20 hours
of your valuable time. Most experienced dev do not like taking such tests.
This a horrendous approach, since it takes a lot of your time but doesn't cost 
a penny to the company. So, they like giving out some projects. My personal take
is, a interview process should cost proportional time on both end, otherwise such
process is not a fair process. 
 
<br/>
<hr/>


> 2019 © nafSadh  
> Maintained on [GitHub](https://github.com/nafSadh/intvw-prep-res) by [nafSadh](http://nafSadh.com).   
> Please report issues and add suggestions [here](https://github.com/nafSadh/notes/projects/1).
